4 Examples of Famous Fables Some of the most famous fables include:

The fox and the grapes.

This fable is the origin of the phrase “sour grapes.” A fox spies a bunch of
grapes high up on a branch and wants them badly. He takes a running jump to
reach them but misses. He tries several more times, but to no avail. Finally, he
gives up and walks away scornfully. The moral of the tale is: “There are many
who pretend to despise and belittle that which is beyond their reach.”

The lion and the mouse.

A lion catches a mouse, who begs to be let go. The mouse promises to repay the
lion in exchange for his life. The lion agrees and lets the mouse go. A few days
later, the mouse comes upon the lion trapped in a hunter’s net, and, remembering
the lion’s mercy, gnaws on the rope until the lion is free. The moral of the
story is: “A kindness is never wasted.” The tortoise and the hare.

The tortoise and the hare enter a footrace.

The hare jeers at the tortoise, remarking how naturally he is so much faster
than the slow tortoise. During the race, the hare takes several long breaks and
wastes time relaxing between quick sprints. Meanwhile, the tortoise chugs
steadily along. In the end, the tortoise wins. The moral of the story is: “Slow
and steady wins the race.”

The fox and the crow.

A hungry fox comes upon a crow up in a tree with a bit of cheese in its mouth.
The fox begins to talk to the crow, telling her she is so beautiful and must
have a beautiful voice to match. At first, the crow stays silent, holding on to
her cheese. But at last, after much flattery, she opens her mouth to crow. The
cheese falls into the fox’s mouth. The moral of the story is: “The flatterer
lives at the expense of those who will listen to him.”
